# Context Free

##  Who is this programming language for?

I don't think there's a very narrow target audience in mind. I can see the language appealing to abstract art enthusiasts even with little programming background, or to those with significant programming background who want to dabble in art. 

Ultimately the language is for anyone who hears about it and is interested in making anything with it. It's also for anyone who wants to see images created by it.

## What is easy to do in this language? Why is it easy?

It's easy to make specific kinds of art: 
* Fractal-style art
* Randomized art
* Art that repeats one element with changes

These things are all easy because the program directly supports them through features: fractals are supported by the nature of rules, randomized art is directly supported with different rules of the same name, and repeating an element is supported by recursive calls where you modify aspects of the element.

It's also very easy to vary what you've created in two ways: by producing other random variants, or by tweaking parameters in such a way as to modify major aspects of the produced image. 

## What is hard to do in this language? Why is it hard?

* It's hard to make _conventional_ art. You can't easily tell the program "put this element here and this element there" because coordinates are relative. You have relatively few primitives to work with. If you wanted to, say, make art in the shape of a person's face, it would be difficult to do so with a high degree of precision.
* It's difficult to create many simple features often supported by similar programs like text because they aren't built in (to my knowledge).
* It's hard (or impossible) to do anything other than creating images, because the program does not have any other capabilities. 

## How did you learn how to program in this language?

I looked at the sample program that was there when I opened it, and figured out what was going on with it. I started by simplifying it significantly by cutting a lot of it out. With what remained, I modified little bits of the code to see what was changing in the resulting picture until I understood what each number or piece of code was controlling. I then tried messing around with my own rules and seeing if I could control what I thought I could. I occasionally referenced the documentation, but I found it less helpful than the built-in program.

## What is the underlying _computational model_ for this programming language? 
_We don't yet have a great definition of the term "computational model". 
For now, try to come up with the clearest, most concise explanation of what 
happens when a ContextFree program runs._

Presumably, the language is interpreted and the interpreter steps through calls to rules, keeping track of some state that represents x, y, hue/saturation/brightness, and so on. Each time it sees a primitive, it draws it in the appropriate place and continues executing the code.

## What do you think is interesting about the ContextFree program you wrote?

* It's interesting the variety of pictures which it can produce with relatively little variation in the code. The image is spread out to various degrees, the tendrils cross each other in different amounts and are brighter or darker. It will often be lopsided, but not always.
* It's interesting how intricate the image gets where various tapering-off tendrils meet. It gives it a pixelated look. 
* I personally like the mathematics involved in some of the randomness - each individual square is generated by having a 5/6 chance of nesting another square inside itself recursively, and a 1/6 chance of ending. So any individual square could be nested arbitrarily far (at least until the individual square get too small).
* It's interesting how even with the vibrant colors, the resulting patterns are recognizable to the human eye. They look like systems of roots.
