# Language
_What is the name of the language? Link the name to its webpage 
(if appropriate)._

I found the DSL [BUGS.](http://fisher.utstat.toronto.edu/pub/escobar/bug5/doc/manual05.ps)

# Domain
_Describe the language's domain in five words._

"Bayesian interference on statistical problems" - [BUGS Manual, Section 1.1](http://fisher.utstat.toronto.edu/pub/escobar/bug5/doc/manual05.ps).

# Computational model
_We don't yet have a great definition of the term "computational model". 
For now, try to come up with the clearest, most concise explanation of 
what happens when a program in your DSL runs._

The model runs several hundred times to find an estimate for the unknown quanities in your model and then uses them to run the number of requested simulations of the test, tracking the parameters of interest. It returns a file containing the series of values simulated for the users parameter of interest.

# DSL-ness
_Fowler writes about a spectrum of languages, from general-purpose languages to 
"purely" domain-specific. Where does the DSL you chose fall on this spectrum, 
and why?_ 

My DSL falls very close to the "purely" domain-specific end of the spectrum. It is not a Turing complete language according to [this article](http://fisher.utstat.toronto.edu/pub/escobar/bug5/doc/manual05.ps). It has a clear domain focus on complex statistical modeling. It has the fluency of a langauge since you can write an entire block of code in it. BUGS is clearly intended for human statisticians to instruct a computer to do calculations for them so it is a computer programming language. While BUGS does include for loops and arrays which are unusual in a DSL, these are included purely to allow clear organization of large quantities of data used in and generated by statistical models. For loops are used to describe large, repetitive data structure clearly and succinctly. According to the BUGS manual, for loops "constitute a declarative description of the graphical model, and should not be interpreted in a procedural way"

# Internal or external?
_Is the language implemented as an internal or external DSL? 
Justify your answer._

According to [this website](https://brenocon.com/blog/2009/12/list-of-probabilistic-model-mini-language-toolkits/) BUGS is an external DSL because the model definition language is similar to R, but not actually R. It is unique.

# Host language
_What language(s) was (were) used to implement the DSL?_

BUGS was written in Modula-2.

# Benefits
_Identify one potential benefit of the DSL: how is a programmer's life or a 
company's bottom line made easier by the existence of this language?_

BUGS allows companies to generate complex statistical models which could be used in cost-benefit analysis, by a research company searching for a relationship between several variables, or by a trading company trying to predict which stocks they should buy. The statistical model is intended for modeling situations such as these with many unknown quantities. The company can use the built in functions and capabilities of BUGS rather than writing their own, so there code is shorter and simpler. This makes it easier to debug, and easier for statisticians to read and understand even if they are not computer scientists.  

# Drawbacks
_Identify one potential drawback of the DSL: what does a programmer or company 
lose by using this DSL instead of a general-purpose language?_

BUGS may be to slow for thousands of parameters and programmers are less likely to come to the company with experience in BUGS. 
